

And if you were to continue increasing the pressure the amount of energy required to obtain that transition reduces and reduces until you reach a point at which no energy is required at all.

At that point there is no longer a discernible difference between the liquid and vapour phases and the fluid is referred to as a *supercritical fluid*. The point at which that occurs is referred to as the critical point, and for every fluid that is defined by a specific temperature and pressure. 

For water, that occurs at 374 degrees Celsius and a pressure or 221 bar (or 218 times atmospheric pressure). 

For CO<sub>2</sub>, that occurs at a temperature 31 degrees Celsius and a pressure of 74 bar (or 73 times atmospheric pressure).

So, in simple terms, a supercritical CO<sub>2</sub> power system is particular type of thermal power system operating with CO<sub>2</sub>  as its working fluid, and within the cycle the CO<sub>2</sub> is maintained at a temperature above 31 °C and a pressure above 74 bar.

Besides that, the operation of the system, at least in principle, is the same as any other system with the working fluid undergoing compression, heat addition, expansion and heat rejection in order to generate power from an available heat source.

OK, great. But why is that interesting?

Well, that is a great question. Perhaps you might just want to read the review paper to find out?


**Review of supercritical CO<sub>2</sub> technologies and systems for power generation**

[You can check out the full paper here.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.applthermaleng.2020.116447)

Credit to my co-authors from both City, University of London and Brunel University London:
Martin White, Giuseppe Bianchi, Lei Chai, Savvas Tassou, Abdulnaser Sayma

Abstract
*Thermal-power cycles operating with supercritical carbon dioxide (sCO<sub>2</sub>) could have a significant role in future power generation systems with applications including fossil fuel, nuclear power, concentrated-solar power, and waste-heat recovery. The use of sCO<sub>2</sub>  as a working fluid offers potential benefits including high thermal efficiencies using heat-source temperatures ranging between approximately 350 and 800 degrees Celsius, a simple and compact physical footprint, and good operational flexibility, which could realise lower levelised costs of electricity compared to existing technologies. However, there remain technical challenges to overcome that relate to the design and operation of the turbomachinery components and heat exchangers, material selection considering the high operating temperatures and pressures, in addition to characterising the behaviour of supercritical CO<sub>2</sub>. Moreover, the sensitivity of the cycle to the ambient conditions, alongside the variable nature of heat availability in target applications, introduce challenges related to the optimal operation and control. The aim of this paper is to provide a review of the current state-of-the-art of sCO<sub>2</sub> power generation systems, with a focus on technical and operational issues. Following an overview of the historical background and thermodynamic aspects, emphasis is placed on discussing the current research and development status in the areas of turbomachinery, heat exchangers, materials and control system design, with priority given to experimental prototypes. Developments and current challenges within the key application areas are summarised and future research trends are identified.*